Terms of Service ("TOS")
Effective Date: May 19, 2018.
Welcome.
These terms of service (“TOS”) apply to you and Rovio Entertainment Corporation, address Keilaranta 7, 02150 Espoo, Finland, ("Rovio”) regarding your use of Rovio´s games, websites, discussion forums and related services ("Services"). Use of the Services is also governed by Rovio´s Privacy Notice available at https://www.rovio.com/privacy, which is incorporated by reference.

For United States residents, these TOS contain a binding arbitration clause in Article 8 and a class-action waiver that affects your rights about how to resolve disputes. If you live in the United States, please read it carefully. Except where you opt out, and except for certain types of disputes described in Section 8, you agree that any disputes arising between you and Rovio will be resolved by binding, individual arbitration and you waive your right to participate in any class-action lawsuit or class-wide arbitration.

As a precondition for using the Services, you must agree to these TOS. If you accept these TOS, you represent that you are age 13 or older. If you are between the ages of 13 and 17 or otherwise do not have the authority to enter into agreements such as these TOS, you represent that your legal guardian, or a holder of parental responsibility, has reviewed and agreed to these TOS.

By using or otherwise accessing the Services, you agree to these TOS. If you do not agree to these TOS, you may not use or otherwise access the Services.

Unless otherwise specified by a component of an applicable Service, the Services are free to use or download but may contain features that may allow you to make purchases within the Services.

If you access the Services from a social networking site ("SNS"), such as Facebook, you agree to comply with its terms of service as well as these TOS.

Rovio may issue additional policies related to specific components of the Services (including, but not limited to, forums, contests, sweepstakes or loyalty programs). Your right to use the Services is subject to such relevant policies and these TOS.

1. Right to Use the Services
Subject to these TOS, Rovio hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, limited right and license to use the Services for your personal, non-commercial use. The rights granted to you are subject to your compliance with these TOS.

Except as previously set forth, you do not receive any other license. Rovio retains all right, title and interest in and to the Services, including, but not limited to, all copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, trade names, proprietary rights, patents, titles, computer codes, audiovisual effects, themes, characters, character names, stories, dialog, settings, artwork, sound effects, musical works, gameplay recordings made using the Services, moral rights, whether registered or not and all applications thereof. Unless expressly authorized by law, the Services may not be copied, reproduced or distributed in any manner or medium, in whole or in part, without Rovio’s prior written consent. Rovio reserves all rights not expressly granted to you herein.

The Services and its contents are licensed, not sold. You agree that you have no right or title in or to any content that appears in the Service, including, but not limited to, the Virtual Items or currency appearing in or originating from the Services, whether earned in the Services or purchased from Rovio or third parties.

2. Purchases in the Services
Rovio may license to you certain virtual goods to be used within the Service and which you may purchase with "real world" money or which you may earn or redeem via gameplay ("Virtual Items"). Virtual Items are licensed to you on a limited, personal, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable basis and are intended solely for non-commercial use.

Rovio may manage, control, modify or eliminate Virtual Items at any time, with or without notice.

The transfer of Virtual Items is prohibited except where expressly authorized in the Services, as applicable.

Virtual Items do not have an equivalent value in real world money and are not a substitute for real world money. Neither Rovio nor any other person or entity has any obligation to exchange Virtual Items for anything of value. Rovio is not liable for hacking or loss of your Virtual Items.

Price and availability of Virtual Items are subject to change without notice.

By law, all purchases and redemptions of Virtual Items made through the Services are final and non-refundable. You acknowledge and consent that the provision of Virtual Items for use in the Services is a process that commences immediately upon purchase and that you forfeit your right of cancelation once the process has commenced.

Accordingly, you agree that Rovio is not required to provide a refund for Virtual Items for any reason. You further acknowledge that you will not receive money or other compensation for unused Virtual Items, regardless of whether your loss of license under these TOS was voluntary or involuntary.

If you ask for your personal data to be deleted as described in Rovio’s Privacy Notice, you will permanently forfeit all of your Virtual Items without the right to refund, as Rovio will no longer be able associate such Virtual Items with you.

3. Code of Conduct
You agree that you will not, under any circumstances:

Use, either directly or indirectly, any cheats, exploits, automation software, bots, hacks, mods or any unauthorized third-party software designed to modify or interfere with the Services.
Use the Services in violation of any applicable law or regulation.
Use the Services for commercial purposes, including, but not limited to, to advertising, or solicitation, or transmission of any commercial advertisements such as spam emails, chain letters, pyramid or other get-rich-quick schemes.
Use the Services for fraudulent or abusive purposes including, but not limited to, using the Services to impersonate any person or entity, or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person, entity or the Services;
Disrupt, interfere with or otherwise adversely affect the normal flow of the Services or otherwise act in a manner that may negatively affect other users' experience when using the Services.
Disrupt, overburden, or aid or assist in the disruption or overburdening of any computer or servers used to offer or support the Services.
Attempt to gain unauthorized access to the Services, to accounts registered to others or to the computers, servers, or networks connected to the Services by any means other than the user interface provided by Rovio, including, but not limited to, by circumventing or modifying, attempting to circumvent or modify, or encouraging or assisting any other person to circumvent or modify, any security, technology, device, encryption, or software that is part of the Services.
Post any information, content or other material (or post links to any information or content) that contains nudity, excessive violence or is abusive, threatening, obscene, defamatory, libelous, or racially, sexually, religiously offensive or otherwise objectionable.
Engage in ongoing toxic behavior, such as repeatedly posting information on an unsolicited basis.
Attempt to, or harass, abuse, or harm, or advocate or incite harassment, abuse, or harm of another person, group, including Rovio employees, directors, officers, and customer service representatives.
Make available through the Services any material or information that infringes any copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, right of privacy, right of publicity, or other right of any person or entity, or which impersonates any other person, including, but not limited to, a Rovio employee, director or officer.
Unless specifically authorized by law, attempt to decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or hack any of the Services, or to defeat or overcome any of the encryption technologies or security measures or data transmitted, processed or stored by Rovio, or to obtain any information from the Services using any method not expressly permitted by Rovio.
Solicit or attempt to solicit login information or any other login credentials or personal information from other users of the Services.
Harvest, scrape or collect any information about or regarding other people that use the Services, including, but not limited to, through use of pixel tags, cookies, GIFs or similar items that are sometimes also referred to as spyware.
Post anyone's private information, including personally identifiable information/personal data (whether in text, image or video form), identification documents, or financial information through the Services.
Engage in any act that Rovio deems to conflict with the spirit or intent of the Services or make improper use of Rovio´s support services.
4. Third-Party Services
Services may include links to third-party services (including, but not limited to, advertisements displayed by third parties) and/or the third-party services may be made available to you via Services. These services may include, but are not limited to gameplay recording and sharing, social media connectivity and advertisements. These services are subject to respective third party terms and conditions. Please read these third-party terms and conditions, carefully as they constitute an agreement between you and the relevant third-party service provider to which Rovio is not a party.